Evaluating memgraph (#1263)
memgraph/documentation: pages/memgraph-in-production/benchmarking-memgraph.mdx

---
title: Benchmarking Memgraph
description: Frameworks you can use from the Memgraph's ecosystem that will allow you to test Memgraph's performance, scale, and stability 
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import { CommunityLinks } from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'

# Benchmarking Memgraph against others

> ## mgbench - framework for performance testing

Reviewer: remove (move below the intro)

from our **in-memory architecture**.

Many disk-based graph databases must write data to disk during every transaction and retrieve it back during reads.
While these databases often rely on caching layers to speed up reads, **cache invalidation becomes a bottleneck** in 
**high-throughput write scenarios**. Every new write risks invalidating parts of the cache, leading to more disk reads
and slower performance.

In **read-only workloads**, the performance gap between Memgraph and other databases may appear smaller at first glance.
However, even in these scenarios, **on-disk graph databases can suffer from unpredictable latency** due to
**cache invalidation**, especially if the system has recently handled write operations. This can lead to a
**poor user experience**, with inconsistent query response times depending on whether data is fetched from cache or disk.

Memgraph, on the other hand, **consistently performs better** by keeping the entire dataset **in memory**,
ensuring **predictable latency and fast response times** regardless of previous operations or system state.

> 

Reviewer: Add title here, but shorter, something like "Introducing mgbench"

To support fair and realistic comparisons, we built **[mgbench](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph/blob/master/tests/mgbench/README.md)**—a benchmarking 
framework located within our core Memgraph repository. Unlike simplistic benchmarks that run a query once and record latency, 
mgbench focuses on **repeatable, controlled testing** across different conditions and vendors.

> We designed mgbench to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<h3 className="custom-header">What sets mgbench apart?</h3>

```

> - Eliminate noise from unrelated system activity  
> - Account for whether a database is **“hot” or “cold”**  
> - Detect how **query repetition, data freshness**, or **system-level caching** affect results  
> - Support **adding new vendors and workloads** easily  
> - Provide both **latency and throughput metrics at scale**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Eliminates noise from unrelated system activity  
- Differentiates between **cold** and **hot** database states
- Detects how **query repetition, data freshness** or **system-level caching** affect results  
- Supports **adding new vendors and workloads** easily  
- Provides both **latency and throughput metrics at scale**

```

Many teams make the mistake of testing queries in isolation. But in real production workloads, especially ones with 
**high write volume**, read metrics can be greatly affected. This is where Memgraph's in-memory model really shines, offering 

> **consistent performance even under pressure**, where disk-based solutions tend to fall behind. For this reason, *mgbench* is designed 
> to support both [**realistic workloads**](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph/blob/master/tests/mgbench/README.md#workloads),
> which simulate production-like distributions of reads, writes,
> and analytical queries, and [**mixed workloads**](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph/blob/master/tests/mgbench/README.md#workloads), 
> where you can analyze how the combination of different query types affects individual performance metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**consistent performance even under pressure**, where disk-based solutions tend to fall behind. 

<h3 className="custom-header">Realistic + mixed workloads</h3>

For the reasons listed above, `mgbench` supports:
- [Realistic workloads](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph/blob/master/tests/mgbench/README.md#workloads): Simulate production-like distributions of reads, writes,
and analytical queries
- [Mixed workloads](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph/blob/master/tests/mgbench/README.md#workloads): Analyze how the combination of different query types affects individual performance metrics.

```

<Callout type="info">

> Ready to test for yourself? Try out [**mgbench**](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph/blob/master/tests/mgbench/README.md) with 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ready to test for yourself? Try out [mgbench](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph/blob/master/tests/mgbench/README.md) with 

```

your own data and workloads, and see how Memgraph performs under realistic production conditions. 🚀  
</Callout>

## Visualizing results with Benchgraph

While `mgbench` gives you full control over benchmarking and produces raw results in JSON format, we know that
analyzing performance metrics at scale can be time-consuming. That’s why we created
[**Benchgraph**](https://github.com/memgraph/benchgraph)—a companion visualization tool for `mgbench`.

![](/pages/memgraph-in-production/benchmarking-memgraph/benchgraph-snippet.png)

Benchgraph is not required to use `mgbench`, but it offers a **convenient way to visualize and explore**
benchmark results across a variety of run conditions:

- **Cold vs. hot cache** scenarios  
- **Isolated query performance** vs. **realistic workload distributions**  
- **Latency and throughput trends** across vendors and dataset sizes
- **Per query comparison** across the whole workload

By turning JSON output into interactive dashboards, Benchgraph helps you identify trends and outliers quickly,
spot regressions, and better understand how each database behaves under pressure.

<Callout type="info">

> For looking into the published bechmarks, check out [our official BenchGraph site](https://memgraph.com/benchgraph)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For looking into the published bechmarks, check out our official [BenchGraph site](https://memgraph.com/benchgraph)!

```
